{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww24840\viewh15100\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The functions added in 2.0(latest):\
\
Tap-tempo moved to tempo knob. (it is removed from the DONE knob)\
\
RAS-buttons in play-mode will only act when kept pressed.\
\
Swing, basically you have 5 levels of swing(shuffle) and you press next and prev in play-mode to increment/decrement the amount of swing.\
\
Save wherever you like. In edit-mode, to save, press DONE, choose location(bank + pattern no), press DONE again. To save in the same location as you are, just press DONE twice.\
\
Loop-mode when playing. Press and hold DONE in play-mode, while pressed, choose your start- and end-point for the loop, the 13 note switches and the three RAS-switches are 1-16 in that order. If you only enter a start and no end, it will be ignored. If the start step is larger than the end step it will loop backwards. If you for example want to loop the whole pattern backwards just press and hold DONE, press S and then press low C, release DONE. The loop will start at the end of the loop/pattern currently playing. You cannot loop outside the pattern length. To exit loop-mode just press and release DONE.\
\
Step-edit when playing in edit-mode. When in edit-mode and the sequencer is running, press next and you will enter step-edit but the pattern is still playing. Everything as in normal step-edit but with running sequencer. You will exit the mode by just pressing next past the last step in the sequence.\
\
Pattern rotate forward in edit-mode. Hold PREV and press NEXT to rotate one step forward. \
\
Pattern rotate backwards in edit-mode. Hold NEXT and press PREV to rotate one step backwards. \
\
Nudge in pattern-play. Hold PREV and press NEXT to skip a step, Hold NEXT and press PREV to stutter a step.\
\
Restart a pattern/loop in pattern play. Just press and hold CHAIN and press PREV to restart the pattern/loop from the first step.\
\
Pattern-edit now outputs MIDI when running.\
\
MIDI rest bug fixed. \
\
Live-edit:  Just turn the function knob from any of the play(master, DIN-sync, MIDI-sync) functions to edit and you can edit the currently running pattern and save it where you like. If you stop it and the function knob has changed its position, it will then go to the new function.\
\
Pressing CHAIN in edit-mode will now re-shuffle the current pattern in a specific way. If you like the shuffle, save it where you like, otherwise just re-shuffle again! The algorithm used is:  \
[1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16] -> [7 8 9 12 13 14 15 16 2 3 4 5 6 1 10 11]\
\
Press and hold CHAIN and press the TEMPO knob to completely erase a pattern in edit mode. It will be filled with EOP(end of pattern).\
\
Hold DONE and press the TEMPO knob to half the tempo(i e play 8ths) in play mode. This will still keep stuff in sync and it will only affect whole patterns to keep things lined up properly. Same combination to go back to normal mode. \
\
MIDI pattern change. Just send a MIDI patch change message on the MIDI in channel and the 'b0x will act as if you pressed the corresponding button and twisted the bank knob. \
\
MIDI transpose. Send a note between C2 and C4(C3 and C5 on some devices) to transpose the current running pattern in pattern play mode. Now acts directly, no delay. \
\
MIDI sysex. The x0xb0x can now send and receive pattern banks via MIDI sysex. In keyboard mode, press R/S and NEXT to dump the pattern bank the bank knob points to. Press R/S and PREV to load a bank into the pattern bank \
the bank knob point to. NOTE: turning the bank knob in keyboard mode will change the bank you want to send/receive to but also change the MIDI out channel. NOTE2: It is perfectly possible to royally screw up things with MIDI \
sysex receive, please dump your patterns via the excellent application available at the x0xb0x forum before you start experimenting. \
\
Press the TEMPO knob in edit mode to toggle triplet mode. Triplet patterns can be maximum 15 notes long. (A regular pattern of 16 notes will be truncated to 15.) \
\
Transpose a pattern in edit mode. Press PREV and UP or DOWN for transposing the pattern in half note steps. NOTE: a note can not be transposed out of range, be careful with patterns on the boundaries. \
\
Settings in User C mode. The three first of the eight white buttons is used for setting:\
1: disable 2*UP (when set(lit) disables writing of patterns with 2*UP transposed notes)\
2: disable EEPROM saving of tempo changes (when set will disable writing of tempo to the internal EEPROM)\
3: enable pattern change to new pattern in running edit-mode (when you go from play to edit, save edited pattern in new position, go back to play, it will change to the new pattern)\
\
All of the functionality of 1.05 is left intact. (There are two notable changes; to save: press DONE + position(optional) + DONE; when turning the function knob and the sequencer is running, it will not stop anymore.)\
\
\
\
Known bugs:\
\
Pattern rotate backwards in edit mode will enter step-edit mode.\
Re-shuffle does not work for triplet patterns. \
MIDI sysex receive has no visual feedback. \
Transposed notes that get out-of-range will sound\'85 different...}